.. This Software (Dioptra) is being made available as a public service by the
.. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), an Agency of the United
.. States Department of Commerce. This software was developed in part by employees of
.. NIST and in part by NIST contractors. Copyright in portions of this software that
.. were developed by NIST contractors has been licensed or assigned to NIST. Pursuant
.. to Title 17 United States Code Section 105, works of NIST employees are not
.. subject to copyright protection in the United States. However, NIST may hold
.. international copyright in software created by its employees and domestic
.. copyright (or licensing rights) in portions of software that were assigned or
.. licensed to NIST. To the extent that NIST holds copyright in this software, it is
.. being made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
.. license (CC BY 4.0). The disclaimers of the CC BY 4.0 license apply to all parts
.. of the software developed or licensed by NIST.
..
.. ACCESS THE FULL CC BY 4.0 LICENSE HERE:
.. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

.. _how-to-managing-containers:

Managing Containers
=====================

This how to guide explains how to start, stop, edit, delete and perform other management commands to Docker containers. 


Prior Documentation Snippets
----------------------------

.. note:: 
    The following material is from previous document pages. It needs to be refactored. It is included below as a placeholder and for reference. 


Starting the deployment
-----------------------

There are two options for starting the Dioptra deployment, using Docker Compose directly and using systemd.

Using Docker Compose
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Run the following in the generated folder to start the deployment using Docker Compose.

.. code:: sh

   docker compose up -d

Using systemd
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

   This will only work if you are deploying Dioptra on a Linux distribution that uses systemd, such as Ubuntu, Fedora, or Red Hat Enterprise Linux.

Run the following to install the Dioptra systemd service generated by the template.

.. code:: sh

   sudo cp ./systemd/dioptra.service /etc/systemd/system

Next, use systemd to start the deployment.

.. code:: sh

   sudo systemctl start dioptra

Finally, enable the Dioptra systemd service so that the deployment will survive reboots.

.. code:: sh

   sudo systemctl enable dioptra

Managing the deployment
-----------------------

Run the following in the generated folder to check the status of the deployment.

.. code:: sh

   docker compose ps

Run the following in the generated folder to check the status of the application logs.

.. code:: sh

   docker compose logs -f

Use :kbd:`Ctrl + C` to stop following the logs.

Run the following in the generated folder to restart the deployment.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Docker Compose

      .. code:: sh

         # Using Docker Compose v2
         docker compose restart

   .. tab-item:: systemd

      .. code:: sh

         systemctl restart dioptra

Run the following in the generated folder to stop the deployment.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Docker Compose

      .. code:: sh

         docker compose down

   .. tab-item:: systemd

      .. code:: sh

         systemctl stop dioptra

Run the following to prevent the deployment from restarting on reboot (systemd only),

.. code:: sh

   systemctl disable dioptra


Rerunning the Deployment Script
-------------------------------

When making configuration changes and attempting to rerun ``init-deployment.sh``, the script may freeze while trying to reconfigure the minio container. It is likely that the container is still functioning properly, and this portion of the setup can be skipped by running  ``init-deployment.sh`` with the ``--skip-minio-setup`` option:

.. code:: sh

   ./init-deployment.sh --skip-minio-setup
