#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=cookiecutter --extra=dev --extra=examples --extra=mlflow-full --extra=postgres --extra=worker --output-file='venvs\win-amd64-py3.11-requirements-dev-tensorflow.txt' pyproject.toml requirements-dev-tensorflow.in requirements-dev.in
#
-e file:.#egg=dioptra
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
absl-py==2.1.0
    # via
    #   keras
    #   tensorboard
    #   tensorflow-intel
adversarial-robustness-toolbox==1.18.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
aiohttp==3.9.5
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
aiosignal==1.3.1
    # via aiohttp
alabaster==0.7.16
    # via sphinx
alembic==1.13.2
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-migrate
    #   mlflow
aniso8601==9.0.1
    # via
    #   flask-restx
    #   graphene
anyio==4.4.0
    # via
    #   httpx
    #   jupyter-server
argon2-cffi==23.1.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.3.0
    # via
    #   isoduration
    #   jinja2-time
asttokens==2.4.1
    # via stack-data
astunparse==1.6.3
    # via tensorflow-intel
async-lru==2.0.4
    # via jupyterlab
async-timeout==4.0.3
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
attrs==23.2.0
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   cattrs
    #   flake8-bugbear
    #   jsonschema
    #   lsprotocol
    #   referencing
autopep8==2.3.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
babel==2.15.0
    # via
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.12.3
    # via nbconvert
binaryornot==0.4.4
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
bleach==6.1.0
    # via
    #   kaggle
    #   nbconvert
blinker==1.8.2
    # via flask
boto3==1.34.139
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
botocore==1.34.139
    # via
    #   boto3
    #   s3transfer
build==1.2.1
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   pip-tools
cachetools==5.3.3
    # via
    #   mlflow
    #   tox
cattrs==23.2.3
    # via
    #   lsprotocol
    #   pygls
certifi==2024.7.4
    # via
    #   httpcore
    #   httpx
    #   kaggle
    #   requests
cffi==1.16.0
    # via argon2-cffi-bindings
chardet==5.2.0
    # via
    #   binaryornot
    #   tox
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dask
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   distributed
    #   flask
    #   mlflow
    #   pip-tools
    #   prefect
    #   rq
cloudpickle==3.0.0
    # via
    #   dask
    #   distributed
    #   mlflow
    #   prefect
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   build
    #   click
    #   ipython
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
    #   tox
    #   tqdm
comm==0.2.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
contourpy==1.2.1
    # via matplotlib
cookiecutter==2.1.1
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-cookies
croniter==2.0.5
    # via prefect
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
dask==2024.6.2
    # via
    #   distributed
    #   prefect
debugpy==1.8.2
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
deprecated==1.2.14
    # via opentelemetry-api
distlib==0.3.8
    # via virtualenv
distributed==2024.6.2
    # via prefect
docker==7.1.0
    # via
    #   mlflow
    #   prefect
docutils==0.17.1
    # via sphinx
entrypoints==0.4
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   mlflow
esbonio==0.16.4
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
executing==2.0.1
    # via stack-data
faker==26.0.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
fastjsonschema==2.20.0
    # via nbformat
filelock==3.15.4
    # via
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
flake8==7.1.0
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flake8-bugbear
flake8-bugbear==24.4.26
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
flask==3.0.3
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-cors
    #   flask-login
    #   flask-migrate
    #   flask-restx
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   mlflow
flask-accepts==0.18.4
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
flask-cors==4.0.1
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
flask-login==0.6.3
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
flask-migrate==4.0.7
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
flask-restx==1.3.0
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-accepts
flask-sqlalchemy==3.1.1
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-migrate
flatbuffers==24.3.25
    # via tensorflow-intel
fonttools==4.53.1
    # via matplotlib
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
freezegun==1.5.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
frozenlist==1.4.1
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
fsspec==2024.6.1
    # via
    #   dask
    #   universal-pathlib
gast==0.6.0
    # via tensorflow-intel
gitdb==4.0.11
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.43
    # via mlflow
google-pasta==0.2.0
    # via tensorflow-intel
graphene==3.3
    # via mlflow
graphql-core==3.2.3
    # via
    #   graphene
    #   graphql-relay
graphql-relay==3.2.0
    # via graphene
greenlet==3.0.3
    # via sqlalchemy
grpcio==1.64.1
    # via
    #   tensorboard
    #   tensorflow-intel
h11==0.14.0
    # via httpcore
h5py==3.11.0
    # via
    #   keras
    #   tensorflow-intel
httpcore==1.0.5
    # via httpx
httpx==0.27.0
    # via jupyterlab
idna==3.7
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
    #   yarl
imageio==2.34.2
    # via
    #   imgaug
    #   scikit-image
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
imgaug==0.4.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
importlib-metadata==7.1.0
    # via
    #   dask
    #   mlflow
    #   opentelemetry-api
importlib-resources==6.4.0
    # via
    #   flask-restx
    #   prefect
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
injector==0.21.0
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
ipykernel==6.29.5
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyterlab
    #   qtconsole
ipython==8.26.0
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-console
ipywidgets==8.1.3
    # via jupyter
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
itsdangerous==2.2.0
    # via flask
jedi==0.19.1
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   distributed
    #   flask
    #   jinja2-time
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   mlflow
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx
jinja2-time==0.2.0
    # via cookiecutter
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
joblib==1.4.2
    # via scikit-learn
json5==0.9.25
    # via jupyterlab-server
jsonpointer==3.0.0
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.22.0
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-restx
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbformat
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter==1.0.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
jupyter-client==8.6.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-console==6.6.3
    # via jupyter
jupyter-core==5.7.2
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-events==0.10.0
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-lsp==2.2.5
    # via jupyterlab
jupyter-server==2.14.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   notebook
    #   notebook-shim
jupyter-server-terminals==0.5.3
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab==4.2.3
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   notebook
jupyterlab-pygments==0.3.0
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-server==2.27.2
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.11
    # via ipywidgets
kaggle==1.6.14
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
keras==3.4.1
    # via tensorflow-intel
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
lazy-loader==0.4
    # via scikit-image
libclang==18.1.1
    # via tensorflow-intel
locket==1.0.0
    # via
    #   distributed
    #   partd
lsprotocol==2023.0.1
    # via pygls
mako==1.3.5
    # via alembic
markdown==3.6
    # via
    #   mlflow
    #   tensorboard
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   nbconvert
    #   werkzeug
marshmallow==3.21.3
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-accepts
    #   marshmallow-oneofschema
    #   prefect
marshmallow-oneofschema==3.1.1
    # via prefect
matplotlib==3.9.1
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   imgaug
    #   mlflow
    #   pybsm
    #   pycocotools
matplotlib-inline==0.1.7
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via flake8
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mistune==3.0.2
    # via nbconvert
ml-dtypes==0.3.2
    # via
    #   keras
    #   tensorflow-intel
mlflow==2.14.2
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
msgpack==1.0.8
    # via
    #   distributed
    #   prefect
multidict==6.0.5
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
multimethod==1.12
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via prefect
namex==0.0.8
    # via keras
nbclient==0.10.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.16.4
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-server
nbformat==5.10.4
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
nest-asyncio==1.6.0
    # via ipykernel
networkx==3.3
    # via scikit-image
notebook==7.2.1
    # via jupyter
notebook-shim==0.2.4
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
nrtk==0.8.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
numpy==1.26.4
    # via
    #   adversarial-robustness-toolbox
    #   contourpy
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   h5py
    #   imageio
    #   imgaug
    #   keras
    #   matplotlib
    #   ml-dtypes
    #   mlflow
    #   nrtk
    #   opencv-python
    #   opt-einsum
    #   pandas
    #   pyarrow
    #   pybsm
    #   pycocotools
    #   pywavelets
    #   scikit-image
    #   scikit-learn
    #   scipy
    #   shapely
    #   smqtk-classifier
    #   smqtk-dataprovider
    #   smqtk-descriptors
    #   smqtk-image-io
    #   tensorboard
    #   tensorflow-intel
    #   tifffile
opencv-python==4.10.0.84
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   imgaug
    #   nrtk
    #   pybsm
opentelemetry-api==1.25.0
    # via
    #   mlflow
    #   opentelemetry-sdk
    #   opentelemetry-semantic-conventions
opentelemetry-sdk==1.25.0
    # via mlflow
opentelemetry-semantic-conventions==0.46b0
    # via opentelemetry-sdk
opt-einsum==3.3.0
    # via tensorflow-intel
optree==0.12.0
    # via keras
overrides==7.7.0
    # via jupyter-server
packaging==24.1
    # via
    #   build
    #   dask
    #   distributed
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   keras
    #   lazy-loader
    #   marshmallow
    #   matplotlib
    #   mlflow
    #   nbconvert
    #   prefect
    #   pyproject-api
    #   pytest
    #   qtconsole
    #   qtpy
    #   scikit-image
    #   sphinx
    #   tensorflow-intel
    #   tox
pandas==2.2.2
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   mlflow
pandocfilters==1.5.1
    # via nbconvert
parso==0.8.4
    # via jedi
partd==1.4.2
    # via dask
passlib==1.7.4
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
pendulum==3.0.0
    # via prefect
pillow==10.4.0
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   imageio
    #   imgaug
    #   matplotlib
    #   nrtk
    #   scikit-image
    #   smqtk-image-io
pip-tools==7.4.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
platformdirs==4.2.2
    # via
    #   esbonio
    #   jupyter-core
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via
    #   pytest
    #   tox
prefect==1.4.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
prometheus-client==0.20.0
    # via jupyter-server
prompt-toolkit==3.0.47
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
protobuf==4.25.3
    # via
    #   mlflow
    #   tensorboard
    #   tensorflow-intel
psutil==6.0.0
    # via
    #   distributed
    #   ipykernel
psycopg2-binary==2.9.9
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pyarrow==15.0.2
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   mlflow
pybsm==0.5.1
    # via nrtk
pycocotools==2.0.8
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   nrtk
pycodestyle==2.12.0
    # via
    #   autopep8
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flake8
pycparser==2.22
    # via cffi
pydocstyle==6.3.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
pyflakes==3.2.0
    # via flake8
pygls==1.3.1
    # via esbonio
pygments==2.18.0
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
    #   rich
    #   sphinx
pyparsing==3.1.2
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   matplotlib
pyproject-api==1.7.1
    # via tox
pyproject-hooks==1.1.0
    # via
    #   build
    #   pip-tools
pyspellchecker==0.8.1
    # via esbonio
pytest==8.2.2
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   pytest-cookies
pytest-cookies==0.7.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
python-box==7.2.0
    # via prefect
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   botocore
    #   croniter
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   faker
    #   freezegun
    #   jupyter-client
    #   kaggle
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   pendulum
    #   prefect
    #   time-machine
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   jupyter-events
python-slugify==8.0.4
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   kaggle
    #   prefect
pytoml==0.1.21
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
pytz==2024.1
    # via
    #   croniter
    #   flask-restx
    #   mlflow
    #   pandas
    #   prefect
pywavelets==1.6.0
    # via scikit-image
pywin32==306
    # via
    #   docker
    #   jupyter-core
pywinpty==2.0.13
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
    #   terminado
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dask
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   distributed
    #   jupyter-events
    #   mlflow
    #   prefect
pyzmq==26.0.3
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   qtconsole
qtconsole==5.5.2
    # via jupyter
qtpy==2.4.1
    # via qtconsole
querystring-parser==1.2.4
    # via mlflow
redis==5.0.7
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   rq
referencing==0.35.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyter-events
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   docker
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   kaggle
    #   mlflow
    #   prefect
    #   smqtk-dataprovider
    #   sphinx
    #   tensorflow-intel
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rich==13.7.1
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   keras
rpds-py==0.18.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
rq==1.16.2
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
s3transfer==0.10.2
    # via boto3
scikit-image==0.21.0
    # via
    #   imgaug
    #   nrtk
scikit-learn==1.5.1
    # via
    #   adversarial-robustness-toolbox
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   mlflow
scipy==1.13.1
    # via
    #   adversarial-robustness-toolbox
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   imgaug
    #   mlflow
    #   pybsm
    #   scikit-image
    #   scikit-learn
send2trash==1.8.3
    # via jupyter-server
shapely==2.0.4
    # via imgaug
simplejson==3.19.2
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   adversarial-robustness-toolbox
    #   asttokens
    #   astunparse
    #   bleach
    #   google-pasta
    #   imgaug
    #   kaggle
    #   python-dateutil
    #   querystring-parser
    #   rfc3339-validator
    #   tensorboard
    #   tensorflow-intel
smmap==5.0.1
    # via gitdb
smqtk-classifier==0.19.0
    # via
    #   nrtk
    #   smqtk-detection
smqtk-core==0.19.0
    # via
    #   nrtk
    #   smqtk-classifier
    #   smqtk-dataprovider
    #   smqtk-descriptors
    #   smqtk-detection
    #   smqtk-image-io
smqtk-dataprovider==0.18.0
    # via
    #   smqtk-classifier
    #   smqtk-descriptors
    #   smqtk-detection
    #   smqtk-image-io
smqtk-descriptors==0.19.0
    # via smqtk-classifier
smqtk-detection==0.20.1
    # via nrtk
smqtk-image-io==0.17.1
    # via
    #   nrtk
    #   smqtk-descriptors
    #   smqtk-detection
sniffio==1.3.1
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   httpx
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via
    #   pydocstyle
    #   sphinx
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via distributed
soupsieve==2.5
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==4.5.0
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   esbonio
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.8
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.6
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.5
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.7
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.10
    # via sphinx
sqlalchemy==2.0.31
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask-sqlalchemy
    #   mlflow
sqlparse==0.5.0
    # via mlflow
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
structlog==24.2.0
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
tabulate==0.9.0
    # via prefect
tblib==3.0.0
    # via distributed
tensorboard==2.16.2
    # via
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   tensorflow-intel
tensorboard-data-server==0.7.2
    # via tensorboard
tensorflow==2.16.1
    # via -r requirements-dev-tensorflow.in
tensorflow-intel==2.16.1
    # via tensorflow
tensorflow-io-gcs-filesystem==0.31.0
    # via tensorflow-intel
termcolor==2.4.0
    # via tensorflow-intel
terminado==0.18.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
threadpoolctl==3.5.0
    # via scikit-learn
tifffile==2024.7.2
    # via scikit-image
time-machine==2.14.2
    # via pendulum
tinycss2==1.3.0
    # via nbconvert
toml==0.10.2
    # via prefect
tomli==2.0.1
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
toolz==0.12.1
    # via
    #   dask
    #   distributed
    #   partd
tornado==6.4.1
    # via
    #   distributed
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
    #   terminado
tox==4.16.0
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
tqdm==4.66.4
    # via
    #   adversarial-robustness-toolbox
    #   kaggle
    #   nrtk
traitlets==5.14.3
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
types-python-dateutil==2.9.0.20240316
    # via arrow
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   alembic
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   ipython
    #   opentelemetry-sdk
    #   optree
    #   sqlalchemy
    #   tensorflow-intel
tzdata==2024.1
    # via
    #   pandas
    #   pendulum
universal-pathlib==0.2.2
    # via dioptra (pyproject.toml)
uri-template==1.3.0
    # via jsonschema
urllib3==2.2.2
    # via
    #   botocore
    #   distributed
    #   docker
    #   kaggle
    #   prefect
    #   requests
virtualenv==20.26.3
    # via tox
waitress==3.0.0
    # via mlflow
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via prompt-toolkit
webcolors==24.6.0
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.8.0
    # via jupyter-server
werkzeug==3.0.3
    # via
    #   dioptra
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   flask
    #   flask-accepts
    #   flask-login
    #   flask-restx
    #   tensorboard
wheel==0.43.0
    # via
    #   astunparse
    #   dioptra (pyproject.toml)
    #   pip-tools
widgetsnbextension==4.0.11
    # via ipywidgets
wrapt==1.16.0
    # via
    #   deprecated
    #   tensorflow-intel
yarl==1.9.4
    # via aiohttp
zict==3.0.0
    # via distributed
zipp==3.19.2
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# pip
# setuptools
